Relationship between WebTransport, HTTP/3 and QUIC (#145)
ietf-wg-webtrans/draft-ietf-webtrans-http3: draft-ietf-webtrans-http3.md

WebTransport server is an application that accepts WebTransport sessions, which
can be accessed via an HTTP/3 server.

# Overview

## WebTransport, QUIC and HTTP/3

"QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and Secure Transport" {{!RFC9000}}
defines QUIC security, stream multiplexing, reliable and ordered streams,
stream HoL blocking avoidance, flow control, and congestion control.
The transport layer provides these services to applications but does
not constrain how streams are used.

HTTP is an application-layer protocol, defined by "HTTP Semantics" {{!RFC9110}}.

> HTTP/3 has specific features that are not part of the HTTP semantics: QPACK

Reviewer: I think that you want to say that "HTTP/3 is an adaptation of HTTP so that it can use QUIC, where previous HTTP versions used TCP."

I would not talk so much about header compression or the other stuff.

I would also move the second sentence from the next paragraph up to this one.

header compression (static and dynamic) and Server Push. Of these, only
static decompression is mandatory to support.

WebTransport over HTTP/3 makes it possible for an application to directly access
QUIC transport via an HTTP/3 connection. HTTP/3 is the application mapping for
QUIC, defined in {{!RFC9113}}, which describes how streams are used to carry control
data or HTTP request and response message sequences in the form of frames, as
well as describing details of stream and connection lifecycle management.

> However, although WebTransport requires HTTP for its handshake, it doesn't require

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although WebTransport requires HTTP for its handshake, when HTTP/3 is in use it doesn't require
```

This statement is only true if you add the conditional here.

HTTP for any other part. This makes it possible to create a minimal WebTransport client
or server that supports only the semantics required to complete the handshake.
This involves generating/parsing the request method, host,
path, protocol, optional Origin header, and perhaps some extra headers;
generating/parsing the response status code, and possibly some extra headers.

> The receiver can likely perform checks using bytestring comparisons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A receiver can perform some of these checks using bytestring comparisons, provided
that basic QPACK processing is performed.
```

Rather than having to interact with QUIC streams via HTTP semantics and
HTTP/3 frames, a WebTransport session allows direct access. This relies on
the WebTransport handshake (extended CONNECT method) to provide some prior checks.
This is important or the Web security model where same-origin and cross-origin resource
access is very important. Post-handshake, QUIC streams use header bytes
for accounting purposes, but after that an application can use QUIC
streams however it would like. This is similar to WebSockets over
HTTP/1.1, where access is enabled to the underlying bytestream after
both sides have agreed the handshake. As a result, WebTransport

> layering appears as follows:

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the value of this paragraph.  There are a few things that seem  a little unclear to me.

Yes, if you successfully establish a session, you can largely ignore the HTTP parts from that point onward, but I would not focus too heavily on that aspect of this.

Perhaps:

> WebTransport session establishment involves interacting at the HTTP layer with a resource.
> For Web user agents, this interaction is important to ensure for security reasons, especially
> to ensure that the resource is willing to use WebTransport. However, once established,
> there is very use of HTTP and most of the interactions occur directly with QUIC, with
> minimal interaction with HTTP components.

As you say, all streams will have an HTTP marker at the start, but I think that it is enough to use the word "minimal" for that at this level of abstraction.

> ~~~~~~~~~~ drawing

Reviewer: Consider:

```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~ aasvg
```

|       WebTransport       |
|  Punch  | HTTP Semantics |
| Through |   HTTP/3       |

> |          QUIC            |

Reviewer: I would draw horizontal lines to make this a real diagram.

Put the HTTP parts on the left.  I would also widen the "punch through" part and relabel it as something like "nearly direct" or "multiplexing shim only" or something along those lines.
